
Movie Thoughts: The Room

I really struggled to write about this movie. I didn't want to because I'm not sure if I could capture how hurt and shaken to my core I was when I watched this movie. To watch a child grow up thinking that the four walls is all the world that exists for him, is heartbreaking. I can understand that you can't miss what you haven't seen or felt but thinking about that makes me want to scream. No child should have to live like that.

It's also the courage of the mother who was trapped in the room for much longer than the child. I can't even begin to imagine having someone rape her everyday for 7 years, raise a child and not want to kill herself. It would have taken tremendous patience and resolve to survive through that. 


Movie Thoughts: The Danish Girl




Movie Thoughts: Spotlight

I don't often watch movies that have to do with investigative journalism but I suppose there aren't too many out there. This movie is especially gripping and terrifying. Child molestation by priests of the Catholic church that was so widespread. It even showed the number of places that had been reported of these cases before the end credits and it really baffles me that it's only on 2002 when the events of this movie took place. It's just over a decade before now!

One of the most notable moments was Mark Ruffalo's passionate outburst for not being able to write the article yet because the scope hadn't been captured in it's entirety. I could completely relate to his anguish, that the acts were so prevalent that he could consider himself lucky that he wasn't one of the 'chosen' kids.

This movie shows the dichotomy of the human spirit though, of how we're capable of despicable acts but at the same time persist at the face of great adversity. And it truly was great adversity as many of the journalists were faced with obstacle after obstacle in their efforts to find evidence and just generally do their job right. There really is a price to pay for competency when you're doing something that's not popular.

There were several points where it was shown that because the church was so deeply engrained to the foundations of the system at Boston that publishing an article like this was going to cause a rift in society and the powers that be did not want it seeping out to the light. They did everything possible, coerced the victims, bypassed legal documentation so that there is no paper trail for all the ill dealings that they did. They even strong armed high ranking members of the government and schools, and many other systems that drive civilisation to keep this buried.

The worst bit is that the church is a place of spirituality, of guidance and moral education. The kids that were victims were put in a place where they were very much trapped. It wasn't just a physical abuse but also spiritual. It's hard to separate religion from spirituality but that's what these kids faced. I can't even begin to fathom how much the kids would have had to go through and that some even managed to live out their lives without too much damage. But this one of things that can become a vicious cycle that spreads systemically because the ones that could have done something decided to turn a blind eye to the whole situation. There was a quote in the movie and it probably originated from another source but it goes "If it takes a village to raise a kid then it takes a village to abuse them". And that is what happened in this case and many others. It's heartbreaking to watch and I'd struggle to recommend this movie because it isn't just for entertainment. It builds awareness that even at the turn of the century we as a species have deep rooted problems and that we need education to stop things like this from happening.

 
